Constitution Of The Club

1. This group shall be called as ‘The Club’.
	‘Club’ shall mean the name of this group.
(a) Sub-Clubs can be named on their creation.

Change of name of Club or Sub-Clubs is subjected to the amendments under section 7.

2. Structure Of Club.
(a) Club shall be consist of a main body.
(b) Creation of another main body and deletion of this main body is NOT allowed.
(c) Creation of another sub-group or sub-club is allowed.
(d) Deletion of previously created sub-group or sub-club is allowed.

Subsections (a) and (b) will NEVER be amended. Subsections (c) and (d) are subjected to the amendments under section 7.

3. Membership.
(a) Any one who has paid the registration fee and has a valid issued ID card shall be called as valid member of the “The Club”. ‘Member’ or ‘Members’ shall mean as ‘a valid member’ or ‘the valid members’.
(b) Following members will have power to override and can ask members, including other members mentioned in this subsection, to rethink over decision made.
i. Treasurer
ii. Leader, including Leader of Sub-Clubs.
iii. Vice Leader, including Vice Leader of Sub-Clubs.
iv. In-charges of any activity of Club, including Sub-Clubs.
(c) No member, including members with special powers, will have veto right.

Subsections (a) and (b) is subjected to amendments NOT removal. Subsection (c) can NOT be amended nor be removed.

4. Hierarchy Of Club.
(a) The group shall be decentralized i.e. every member shall have equal rights in decision making except members with special powers mentioned in section 3 subsection (b).
(b) Club shall be having one Leader, one Vice Leader and one Treasurer with validity of NOT more than 3 months.
i. Validity can be increased only in cases of incomplete activities and incomplete financial record.
ii. Treasurer shall be common for Club and sub-groups and Sub-Clubs.
(c) Sub-Clubs shall be having one Leader, one Vice Leader.
(d) New activities created under Club and Sub-Clubs shall be having Activity In-charges with validity terminating after completion of the activity.

Subsections (a) and (d) will NOT be amended NOR be removed. Subsections (b) and (c) are subjected to the amendments under section 7.

5. Creation Of Activity
(a) Any member of Club or any sub-group or any sub-club can create new activity provided that it qualifies condition mentioned in subsection (b) of this section.
(b) Activity will come into being only after 70% majority.
(c) Member or members with special powers can not force to create or create activity on his/her/their own.
(d) Funds required for any new activity shall be allotted as per method of Funds Utilization under section 8.
(e) In-charges will be created by Leaders and Vice Leaders. However, members can nominate themselves.

This section is amendable.

6. Prevention Of Harmful Actions.
(a) No member shall be acting in such a way that he/she will be harming mentally / physically to any person.
(b) No member shall be performing anything that will harm the sentiments of person, gender, caste, religion, race or society.
(c) No activity shall be created that will be upon sensitive topics regarding with person, gender, caste, religion, race or society.
(d) Violation of any subsection of this section will be causing removal of member under section 12
Subsections of this section are NOT amendable. New subsections can be added.

7.  Amendment Of Constitution
(a) Amendment can be consist of a single change or of more than a change.
(b) Amendment can only be made once in 3 months.
(c) Constitution Amendments can only be suggested by the members of Club.
(d) Any amendment to become implemented shall require 85% of majority.
(e) Member or members with special powers can not amend or force to amend the constitution on his/her/their own.
(f) Vice Leader of Club shall act as guardian of the constitution responsible for protection of its original identity.
(g) Any section, including its subsections, will be amended only once before commencement of Club by its first few members.

This section is NOT amendable.


8. Funds Utilization
(a) All funds shall be managed by Treasurer. Hence, Treasurer shall be responsible for all transactions.
(b) Record of all transactions shall be maintained by Treasurer.
(c) Treasurer shall be responsible for any damage occurred to funds. This act can cause termination of membership under section 12.
(d) Creation of new activity will take required funds from Treasurer.
(e) Treasurer is answerable to the member about transactions and financial situation of the Funds.

Subsections (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) are NOT amendable and shall NOT be removed. New subsections can be added.

9. Duties Of Special Members
(a) Treasurer shall perform his duties mentioned under section 8.
(b) Vice Leader of Club, including Sub-Clubs, shall act as Leader in absence of the Leader.
(c) Leader, vice Leader shall take decision after concerning with other members. 
(d) In-charges should follow the duties given by Leader and Vice Leader.

This section is amendable.

10. Eligibility For Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader
(a) A candidate should be a valid member of Club
(b) Treasurer, Leader, Vice Leader shall have reputation such that members do not have complaint.
(c) A member should NOT have been elected for any of Treasurer, Leader or Vice Leader more than 2 times and can not apply for continuous candidature hence, there should be time-span of at least 90 days from the first resignation.
(d) Any one of Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader can NOT hold another special position in Club.

This section is amendable.

11. Election Of Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader
(a) Valid members can cast votes.
(b) Each vote has a single value.
(c) A Member to become a candidate shall require 10 nominations from other members. 
(d) To win an election at least 10% majority is needed.
(e) An election in which result having less than 10% majority for all of the candidates  will cause barring of candidates for next elections till new Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader are elected.
(f) Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader can nominate next candidates.
(g) Treasurer, Leader and Vice Leader are responsible for next elections.

Subsections (a) (b) (d) are no amendable and can NOT be removed.

12. Removal Of Member
(a) Only Leader can remove a Member from Club on complaint or on decision to remove with a majority of or more than 50%.
Subsection (a) is NOT amendable. New subsections can be added.

13. Removal Of Treasurer, Leader, Vice Leader
(a) Treasurer can be removed by the Leader on complaint or decision to remove by members with a majority more than 75%.
(b) Also Treasurer can be removed by the Leader if he fails section 8 and section 9.
(c) Vice Leader can be removed by the Leader on complaint or decision to remove by members with a majority more than 75%.
(d) Also Vice Leader can be removed by the Leader if he fails section 9.
(e) Leader will be removed on complaint or decision to remove by members with a majority more than 80%.
(f) Also Leader will be removed if he fails section 9.
(g) Treasurer, Leader, Vice Leader can remain on position after their removal under section 4 subsection (b) index (i).
